# 1. Background
Football (called soccer in the US) is one of the most popular and well-known sports globally. Hence, football match prediction has caught many people's interests, such as betting crowds and companies, researchers, sports teams' management, etc. However, plenty of factors like weather, location, teams’ lineup, yellow or red cards, home advantage or any other factor could be affected the result of the football match. Therefore, the probability of the result will keep changing within 90 minutes of a football match.
Traditionally, the experts had been predicted the results by different statistical models. One of the most popular statistical models, Markov Chain Monte Carlo [1], attempts to evaluate the game's results by analyzing the strength difference between players, the psychological impact of under-estimate the opponent, calculating the attack intensity, Etc. This mathematical model can reflect a certain extent of the match information. Nevertheless, with the increasing number of football-related information referenced, statistical models are hard to handle a huge amount of data with too many other factors.
Due to the limitation of the statistical models, this research attempted to estimate the abilities of three different machine learning models, SVC, RF and MLP, for predicting football match results which shows a better performance for predicting football matches [2]. The dataset for training the models was acquired by https://www.football-data.co.uk/spainm.php.
A literature review of the previous related work in Section 2. The detail of the dataset description in Section 3. The experiments, exploration data analysis and model evaluation are in Section 4. The comparison of different model and data performances in Section 5.

# 2. Dataset description
There are three seasons of La Liga from 2019-2020 to 2021-2022 had been extracted from the website Football-Data.co.uk. The 2019-2020, 2020-2021, and 2021-2022 files contain 380, 380 and 258 matches. Each match originally had 105 columns of data such as match results and statistics, result odds (Home Win, Draw, Away Team), total goals odds, Asian handicap odds and closing odds provided by six different companies. Except for result odds, the odds data were not related to predicting the result by observation. In addition, since the matches were independent of each other rather than a time series relationship, the date, time, and the unrelated betting odds had been dropped first. The shape of the initial dataset is 1015 matches and 38 columns of data after combining all dataset.
